docs: adding readme (#1)
KILTprotocol/nextjs-sporran-credential-login: README.md

# Web3 Verification Credential Login

The following code is example code and requires the user to add business logic and security to the application.

The Web3 DID login with credential verification gives a new flow for authentication by giving the control of the users data back into their hands, whilst providing utility into the builders of the application and unloading the burden of users personal data.

The flow from the application

![](./public/web3LoginFlow.png)

## Getting Started

Lets get going! Lets see how you can start a web3 DID login with credentials verification.

### Requirements

> `Node` installed and [sporran wallet](https://github.com/BTE-Trusted-Entity/sporran-extension/tree/main) for testing use the test sporran walleter. For installation follow the steps in the sporran wallet repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Node` installed and [sporran wallet](https://github.com/BTE-Trusted-Entity/sporran-extension/tree/main) for testing use the test sporran wallet. For installation follow the steps in the sporran wallet repository.
```

        "KiltCredential2020"
      ],
      "credentialSubject": {
        "id": "did:kilt:4o3zUbeEowBHbAu4aLsNXyNQHEw16KZbinLyd6BwXVkzdJKn",
        "origin": "http://localhost:3000",
        "rootHash": "0x54da9dd88fdf83063d6549295721c84ab59f9d802f49ebfb20e5a00e250625ec"
      },
      "proof": {
        "type": "KILTSelfSigned2020",
        "proofPurpose": "assertionMethod",
        "verificationMethod": "did:kilt:4o3zUbeEowBHbAu4aLsNXyNQHEw16KZbinLyd6BwXVkzdJKn#0x5e7ea14081452641c4970081552f774d4b2495ce918ddc0e35fd50735e5d7e1c",
        "signature": "0x044fe1502df8e9c057f016986826c8e3108d8c8dcae055af041f9fa51ce34a201d6c4428242fb6d6690fc3833f040b3e5c91b94c997e7a4232f5c5ee1ca7eb89"
      }
    }
  ]
}

```

### Setup

Clone the repository and go into the folder. You can setup a whole project from start to finish following the KILT Distillery CLI for recipe creation.

Now install with the following command

```js
npm run install 
```

Once you have installed the application and the environmental variables are setup from [verifier setup](#verifier-setup), you can now start the application with the following command

```js
npm run dev
```

## What can you do with the credentials?

> You can make applications that require credentials to access parts of the services. For example,  having a credential for the user's shipping information, the database links the user DID to specific hashes of stored credentials. When someone wants to make a purchase, they can provide the data to the site and not rely on a centralised service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can make applications that require credentials to access parts of the services. For example, having a credential for the user's shipping information, the database links the user DID to specific hashes of stored credentials. When someone wants to make a purchase, they can provide the data to the site and not rely on a centralised service.
```

# Web3 Verification Credential Login

The following code is example code and requires the user to add business logic and security to the application.

The flow from the application

![](./public/web3LoginFlow.png)

## What can you do with the KILT credential?

> The Web3 DID login with credential verification gives a new flow for authentication by giving the control of the users data back into their hands, whilst providing utility into the builders of the application and unloading the burden of users personal data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Web3 DID login with credential verification gives a new flow for authentication by giving the control of the users' data back into their hands, whilst providing utility to the builders of the application and unloading the burden of managing and securing users' personal data.
```

> You can make applications that require credentials to access parts of the services. The application is using the utility of the DID by creating a secure session between the client and backend of the applciation through the frontend as messaging service.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can make applications that require credentials to access parts of the services. The application leverages users' DIDs, which allow creating a secure session between the client and the backend of the application through the frontend as messaging service.
```

One example of the KILT Credential is the web3 Login service. We will explore that in this repository.

> For example, having a credential for the user's shipping information, the database links the user DID or KILT Credential to specific hashes of stored credentials. When someone wants to make a purchase, they can provide the data to the site and not rely on a centralised service.

Reviewer 2: Is shipping information the best example? This is not usually something you'd have to prove - if you type in somebody else's address, you just screw yourself over. Plus it's not something that works with the example credentials we create in the distillery.

Reviewer 2: also, I think we said we'd use US spelling?
```suggestion
For example, having a credential for the user's shipping information, the database links the user DID or KILT Credential to specific hashes of stored credentials. When someone wants to make a purchase, they can provide the data to the site and not rely on a centralized service.
```

> Consider a user, they comes to the website and want to use a service needing shipping information and a way to contact the user. The website accepts credentials issued by socialKYC as they trust the service. This user can provide the website with the credentials to verify the given information, and the application can validate the credentials by querying the KILT chain.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Consider a user who comes to the website and wants to use a service needing shipping information and a way to contact the user. The website accepts credentials issued by socialKYC as they trust the service. This user can provide the website with the credentials to verify the given information, and the application can validate the credentials by querying the KILT chain.
```

Reviewer 2: What we check on chain is the origin or source of trust for the data (claims) in the credential. I think clarifying this helps understanding the design and flows better.

> Once confirmed, the application can create a unique login with the KILT Credential hash plus other information, such as a password. After creating the login, the application can delete all personal information and store any credential hashes for later uses.

Reviewer 2: This is hard to understand even for me. Can you clarify? Why do we do this?

> Now, the user wants to buy an item from your store or uses a service that requires information about shipping. Instead of the user entering or the application knowing the personal information, the website can request a new or existing credential the user owns, assoicated to a given CType. The website validates the information, creates the order, issues an invoice and deletes all personal information afterwards. The user can rely on the website for getting the information and feel comfortable with the process of trust.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now, the user wants to buy an item from your store or uses a service that requires information about shipping. Instead of the user entering or the application knowing the personal information, the website can request a new or existing credential the user owns, associated with a given CType. The website validates the information, creates the order, issues an invoice, and deletes all personal information afterward. The user benefits from a convenient way of providing the website with the reliable information it needs for processing their order while retaining control and insight that is not necessarily given when platforms exchange data about them directly.
```

The utilities can be expanded further. Let's look at the credential login process now and go over what each step is doing and where you can take the code and add it to your existing project or start from scratch from this point.

## Disclaimer

This code is not for production use. It serves as an example workflow for accepting Credentials.

## Getting Started

> Lets get going! Lets see how you can start a web3 DID login with credentials verification.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's get going! Let us see how you can start a web3 DID login with credentials verification.
```

### Requirements

> `Node` installed and [sporran wallet](https://github.com/BTE-Trusted-Entity/sporran-extension/tree/main) for testing use the test sporran wallet. For installation follow the steps in the sporran wallet repository.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`Node` installed and the [sporran wallet](https://github.com/BTE-Trusted-Entity/sporran-extension/tree/main) added to your browser (currently works with Firefox and Chromium-based browsers).
We recommend using the internal/testing version of Sporran for development purposes, which allows you to connect to the Peregrine testnet.
Follow the steps in the sporran wallet repository to build and install.
```

### Setup

> Clone the repository and go into the folder or you can setup a whole project from start to finish following the  [KILT Distillery CLI](https://github.com/KILTprotocol/kilt-distillery-cli/).
> 
> In order to set up the application several environment variables and files must be set up manually or through the Distillery:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Clone the repository and go into the folder or you can set up a whole project from start to finish following the  [KILT Distillery CLI](https://github.com/KILTprotocol/kilt-distillery-cli/).

To set up the application several environment variables and files must be set up manually or through the Distillery:
```

- .env
- didConfiguration.json

### Environment variables

The following variables must be generated. This can be done via the Distillery or manually.

```js
DAPP_NAME='NAME OF APPLICATION'
JWT_SECRET='JSON WEB TOKEN SECRET HERE'

> JWT_EXPIRY='TIME WITH DEMONINATION E.G. Seconds (s) or Hours (h) or days (d)'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
JWT_EXPIRY='TIME WITH DENOMINATION E.G. Seconds (s) or Hours (h) or days (d)'
```

JWT_RENEW='TRUE or FALSE'

> ORIGIN='ORGIN OF THE APPLCIATION'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
ORIGIN='DOMAIN AT WHICH THE APPLICATION CAN BE ACCESSED, E.G. HTTP://LOCALHOST:3000'
```

> WSS_ADDRESS='CONNECT TO CHAIN'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
WSS_ADDRESS='URL OF THE FULL NODE TO CONNECT TO'
```

> VERIFIER_MNEMONIC="Enter your twelve word mnemonic phrase here "

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
VERIFIER_MNEMONIC='Enter your twelve word mnemonic phrase here'
```

VERIFIER_ADDRESS='Enter your address'
VERIFIER_DID_URI='Enter your DID URI'
```

#### Blockchain address

Before you call any SDK functionality, you need to initialize the crypto libraries and configure the SDK. For the project, we'll be using Peregrine Testnet. This is done by calling await Kilt.init({ address }) where address is the address of the full node you want to connect to. For the project, use `wss://peregrine.kilt.io/parachain-public-ws`. Add the address to your `.env` file as `WSS_ADDRESS`.

#### JSON Web token

> Covering the JSON web token, known as JWT, management and creation is out of the scope of the project.

Reviewer 2: I think we need to at least tell people what it is for?

> Covering the JSON web token, known as JWT, management and creation is out of the scope of the project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Covering the JSON web token, known as JWT, management, and creation is out of the scope of the project.
```

#### Verifier Setup

> In order to use the web3 login, the service needs its own DID and provide a [well known domain linkage credential](https://identity.foundation/specs/did-configuration/). A well known domain linkage credential provides a credential for users to verify the domain belongs to the given service. Creating a way to share public keys with the application and user. The DID configuration is used to prevent replay attacks and man in the middle attacks, more details can be found in the [credential Api specification](https://github.com/KILTprotocol/credential-api#man-in-the-middle).

Reviewer 2: I guess @ntn-x2 or @arty-name would know more about this, but AFAIK the domain linkage credential is more about letting the domain owner advertise their DID, which prevents a class of attacks related to impostors posing as the backend/service related to a site by tricking site visitors into connecting to their DID.

> In order to use the web3 login, the service needs its own DID and provide a [well known domain linkage credential](https://identity.foundation/specs/did-configuration/). A well known domain linkage credential provides a credential for users to verify the domain belongs to the given service. Creating a way to share public keys with the application and user. The DID configuration is used to prevent replay attacks and man in the middle attacks, more details can be found in the [credential Api specification](https://github.com/KILTprotocol/credential-api#man-in-the-middle).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to use the web3 login, the service needs its own DID and must provide a [well-known domain linkage credential](https://identity.foundation/specs/did-configuration/). A well-known domain linkage credential provides a credential for users to verify the domain belongs to the given service. Creating a way to share public keys with the application and user. The DID configuration is used to prevent replay attacks and man-in-the-middle attacks, more details can be found in the [credential Api specification](https://github.com/KILTprotocol/credential-api#man-in-the-middle).
```

You can create and attest your well known domain linkage credential or you can use the verification setup tool in the [KILT Distillery CLI](https://github.com/KILTprotocol/kilt-distillery-cli/).

> After you have a create the well known domain linkage for the application, you will need to add it to the `.env` file as shown below

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After you have created the well-known domain linkage for the application, you will need to add it to the `.env` file as shown below
```

```BASH
VERIFIER_MNEMONIC="Enter your twelve word mnemonic phrase here "
VERIFIER_ADDRESS=Enter your address
VERIFIER_DID_URI=Enter your DID URI
```

> Now you can add the well known domain linkage credential, `/.well-known/did-configuration.json`, to a `public` folder of the application. The credential must be issued and matches the verifier DID’s.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now you can add the well-known domain linkage credential, `/.well-known/did-configuration.json`, to the `public` folder in the application source code. The credential must be issued by and to the verifier DID.
```

  "linked_dids": [
    {
      "@context": [
        "https://www.w3.org/2018/credentials/v1",
        "https://identity.foundation/.well-known/did-configuration/v1"
      ],
      "issuer": "did:kilt:4o3zUbeEowBHbAu4aLsNXyNQHEw16KZbinLyd6BwXVkzdJKn",
      "issuanceDate": "2022-04-07T07:54:39.384Z",
      "expirationDate": "2027-04-06T07:54:39.386Z",
      "type": [
        "VerifiableCredential",
        "DomainLinkageCredential",
        "KiltCredential2020"
      ],
      "credentialSubject": {
        "id": "did:kilt:4o3zUbeEowBHbAu4aLsNXyNQHEw16KZbinLyd6BwXVkzdJKn",
        "origin": "http://localhost:3000",
        "rootHash": "0x54da9dd88fdf83063d6549295721c84ab59f9d802f49ebfb20e5a00e250625ec"
      },
      "proof": {
        "type": "KILTSelfSigned2020",
        "proofPurpose": "assertionMethod",
        "verificationMethod": "did:kilt:4o3zUbeEowBHbAu4aLsNXyNQHEw16KZbinLyd6BwXVkzdJKn#0x5e7ea14081452641c4970081552f774d4b2495ce918ddc0e35fd50735e5d7e1c",
        "signature": "0x044fe1502df8e9c057f016986826c8e3108d8c8dcae055af041f9fa51ce34a201d6c4428242fb6d6690fc3833f040b3e5c91b94c997e7a4232f5c5ee1ca7eb89"
      }
    }
  ]
}

```

### Running the application

> Now the applications necessary components have been added to the project, you can run the following commands to spin up the project.
> Now install with the following command

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now the application's necessary components have been added to the project, you can run the following commands to spin up the project.
Now install with the following command:
```

```js
npm run install 
```

> Once you have installed the application and the environmental variables are setup from [verifier setup](#verifier-setup), you can now start the application with the following command

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once you have installed the application and the environmental variables are set up from the [verifier setup](#verifier-setup), you can now start the application with the following command:
```

# Web3 Verification Credential Login

The following code is example code and requires the user to add business logic and security to the application.

The flow from the application

![](./public/web3LoginFlow.png)

## What can you do with the KILT credential?

The Web3 DID login with credential verification gives a new flow for authentication by giving the control of the users' data back into their hands, whilst providing utility to the builders of the application and unloading the burden of managing and securing users' personal data.

You can make applications that require credentials to access parts of the services. The application leverages users' DIDs, which allow creating a secure session between the client and the backend of the application through the frontend as messaging service.

One example of the KILT Credential is the web3 Login service. We will explore that in this repository.

> For example, having a credential for the user's shipping information, the database links the user DID or KILT Credential to specific hashes of stored credentials. When someone wants to make a purchase, they can provide the data to the site and not rely on a centralized service.
> 
> Consider a user who comes to the website and wants to use a service needing shipping information and a way to contact the user. The website accepts credentials issued by socialKYC as they trust the service. This user can provide the website with the credentials to verify the given information, and the application can validate the credentials by querying the KILT chain.
> 
> Once confirmed, the application can create a unique login with the KILT Credential hash plus other information, such as a password. After creating the login, the application can delete all personal information and store any credential hashes for later uses.
> 
> Now, the user wants to buy an item from your store or uses a service that requires information about shipping. Instead of the user entering or the application knowing the personal information, the website can request a new or existing credential the user owns, associated with a given CType. The website validates the information, creates the order, issues an invoice, and deletes all personal information afterward. The user benefits from a convenient way of providing the website with the reliable information it needs for processing their order while retaining control and insight that is not necessarily given when platforms exchange data about them directly.
> 
> The utilities can be expanded further. Let's look at the credential login process now and go over what each step is doing and where you can take the code and add it to your existing project or start from scratch from this point.

Author: ```suggestion
For example, having a credential for the user's information, the database links the user DID or KILT Credential to specific hashes of a stored credential. When someone wants to make a purchase, they can provide the data to the site and not rely on a centralized service.
		
The user visits a website and wants to use a service. A trust exchange between the application and user happens by providing the credential. The website would accept a credential issued by a trusted entity, and the application can validate the credentials information using the KILT blockchain.

Once confirmed, the application can forget the personal data if needed and create a unique login with the KILT Credential hash plus other information, such as a password. 
		
A user can buy an item from the store or use a service requiring personal data about the user. The user can submit the matching credential to prove ownership without the website storing personal information. If needed, the website can request a new credential to provide more data associated with a given CType. The website validates the information, creates the order, issues an invoice, and deletes all personal information afterwards. The user benefits from a convenient way of providing the website with the reliable information it needs for processing its order while retaining control and knowing that the website isn't tracking its data or external entities.
		

Entities can benefit from holding a DID and credentials to form a trust exchange. Let's look at the credential login process now and go over each step and where you can take the code and add it to your existing project or start from scratch from this point.
```

Author: I have updated the example, does it sound better? @rflechtner

# Web3 Verification Credential Login

The following code is example code and requires the user to add business logic and security to the application. 

The Web3 DID login with credential verification gives a new flow for authentication by giving the control of the users data back into their hands, whilst providing utility into the builders of the application and unloading the burden of users personal data. 

The flow from the application: ​​User -> website -> logins in with DID -> Website requests credential -> User gives premisssion access a credential -> Creates Access token -> Website saves credential hash connected to the did in backend excluding personal info

## Getting Started

Lets get going! Lets see how you can start a web3 DID login with credentials verification.

### Requirements

`Node` installed and [sporran wallet](https://github.com/BTE-Trusted-Entity/sporran-extension/tree/main) for testing use the test sporran walleter. For installation follow the steps in the sporran wallet repository.

### Verifier Setup

> You will need a DID and verification of the domain for so the users, can see the entity (website) are the same entity that controls an Internet domain, this is called the [well known domain linkage credential](https://identity.foundation/specs/did-configuration/).

Reviewer 3: Wording is a bit confusing here

Author: How about now?

        "verificationMethod": "did:kilt:4o3zUbeEowBHbAu4aLsNXyNQHEw16KZbinLyd6BwXVkzdJKn#0x5e7ea14081452641c4970081552f774d4b2495ce918ddc0e35fd50735e5d7e1c",
        "signature": "0x044fe1502df8e9c057f016986826c8e3108d8c8dcae055af041f9fa51ce34a201d6c4428242fb6d6690fc3833f040b3e5c91b94c997e7a4232f5c5ee1ca7eb89"
      }
    }
  ]
}

```

### Setup

Clone the repository and go into the folder. You can setup a whole project from start to finish following the KILT Distillery CLI for recipe creation.

Now install with the following command

```js
npm run install 
```

Once you have installed the application and the environmental variables are setup from [verifier setup](#verifier-setup), you can now start the application with the following command

```js
npm run dev
```

## What can you do with the credentials?

You can make applications that require credentials to access parts of the services. For example,  having a credential for the user's shipping information, the database links the user DID to specific hashes of stored credentials. When someone wants to make a purchase, they can provide the data to the site and not rely on a centralised service.

> Consider a user comes to the website, they have a credential with their email address that user provides the website access to the credential to verify the information. Once confirmed, the application can delete the personal information and store the credential hash to the user DID and unique login ID for the site. The user buys an item from your store or uses a service that requires information about shipping. The credential hash can be stored once again in the associated place in the database and requested during the short process, and removed after processing the shipment. The user can rely on the website for getting the information and feel comfortable with the process of trust.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Consider a user comes to the website and they have a credential with their email address. This user can provide the website with the credential to verify the information. Once confirmed, the application can delete the personal information and store the credential hash to the user DID and unique login ID for the site. The user buys an item from your store or uses a service that requires information about shipping. The credential hash can be stored once again in the associated place in the database and requested during the short process, and removed after processing the shipment. The user can rely on the website for getting the information and feel comfortable with the process of trust.
```

Reviewer 3: I think in the section with the shipping it is not clear, that the user would provide another credential for it.
